Hello and welcome in this lecture we're gonna take our first step towards being able to save what weapon
we've got equipped by loading the weapon by name.
So here I've got the name swords so I could load the sword if I go ahead and click.
You'll see that what's loading is the sword in my hand.
But if I went ahead and replaced this with the name of my scriptural object the fireball.
Then if I go ahead and load.
You can see that the weapon I've actually got is my fireball in the hand.
So let's dive in and see how this is done so you may have noticed the emission in this section that
so far we don't have savings.
So if I pick up this sword and go through into the next level then what we're going to see is that the
sword disappears.
And when I come back I still don't have the sword either.
So that sword is just gone.
We've got no save information about it and that's a little bit out of keeping.
Now why is that.
Well because we're going to build a whole equipment system in part 2 of the RPG.
So we don't want to rehash everything and make a kind of faulty equipment system in this part one.
So what we are going to do however is put some sort of savings system in place that allows us to at
the very least remember the current sword that we've got equipped as we go between levels or the current
weapon we might have equipped.
Now the fundamental building block for this is that we got to understand how we can load resources at
runtime because we've got a problem that's in this scene here.
There are no references to a sword at all.
And because of the way Unity's resources loading system works this means it's quite hard for us to get
hold of the scene.
The script will object for the sword.
So why does unity make this so tricky for us.
Well let's consider resource packaging in unity.
So imagine you've got this kind of set up in Unity you've got yourself two scenes and these scenes contain
objects they might have some references to prefabs they might have references to an audio trigger for
example if you'd set up a audio connection in scene one to a prefab between the order then the reference
for that audio trigger is actually stored in the scene so the scene depends on that audio then the prefabs
might have meshes might have other things.
You know there's all these resources all linked up like so and you can see that they might share resources.
So Scene 2 as got reference this prefab which shares this prefab with scene 1 and so on and so forth.
So it's all very complicated and you as you're going through developing your game you might have things
that are just left out over here that aren't actually being used by any of the scenes or you know this
audio asset which we never ended up using.
So unity wants to be really efficient in packaging your game for you.
For example we tell it that we want scene one in our bill.
Let me show you how that is true if we go to your build settings you can see that we've got the scenes
that we want to include here in our build settings and what it does is it goes through everything that's
referenced in scene one and it says OK well we want this audio thing that we set up.
We want this prefab and also we'll look at everything that the prefab references and say well we want
these things too.
And so on and so forth.
And it goes through and marks all the objects that are referenced through Scene 1 or indirectly referenced
through Scene 1.
And this means that we've now got a really efficient package build because we only need to include these
items and not any of the other items that weren't included in scene one.
That's what unity is doing for us.
But there are issues.
For example what if we've got a sword that was loaded in scene two and we go over into scene one and
we want to load it there how can we get hold of that sword.
Well we can't unless we have a Resources folder and you have this special folder and it's like an editor
folder it's a special folder called resources then everything in that Resources folder will be automatically
bundled up into the game as well.
So that's an additional thing that we have access to.
So we need to create a Resources folder for what if we're trying to load our weapons dynamically at
runtime we need to have a resource folder for their proof for their script objects.
So we've got the five ball scripts logic we want to load that at runtime.
So what we can do is we can go to our weapons and I'm going to create a Resources folder inside weapons
it doesn't have to be at the top level of your hierarchy CALL IT resources make sure you have the s
on the end there and then we're going to move in these scripts all objects so we've got the two bow
scripts where objects are gonna go under resources we've got the fireball was going to go into resources
and the sword under resources to an unarmed is going to go under resources.
So now resources contains all the scripts will objects and you might be saying But hang on there were
other things in those folders won't those not get loaded for example this sword equipped and the sword
animator won't those things not get loaded Well actually they will get loaded.
The reason being that the if we have a look in our graph again they have references to those other objects
we have to look at for example our swords you can see has a reference to the equipped sword prefab and
it has a reference to the animator override.
So unity is clever enough to follow those links down to those two objects and say I need to include
include those in the build as well so if we head over into our code editor and open up the fighter script
why would like us to do is instead of using the default weapon here which is a link in the sense of
these kinds of links I want us to simulate a link that is textural.
So what do I mean by that that we're going to create a serialized field which is just gonna be a string
and that's gonna be the default weapon name and I'm going to set this to an armed by default which is
the name of here this assets my script will object for the unarmed attack and I'm going to use that
as the default weapon name and then what I like to do is equip at start the default weapon so how am
I going to do this.
Well we're going to go and create a weapon object which we're going to fill in somehow and we're just
going to equip that weapon instead.
Now how are we going to equip this.
Well we're going to use Unity's method called resources dot load and you can push in a string here for
it to load the resource.
So in this case I'm going to use the default weapon name to load that resource and you'll notice it's
giving an error here.
The reason is it can't convert to the right type but we can use the generic form of load which takes
the angle brackets and if you have the angle brackets with weapon what it's gonna do is it's going to
look for a resource in the resource folders that has the type of weapon.
So it's going to look for a scriptural object of type weapon or a prefab that has a game object model
behavior of type weapon the roots for example and it will take that look for the prefabs look for the
scriptural objects and find that in the resource folders based on the name that you give here and the
way it's looking it up is by the name relative to the resource folder.
So if you had more folders inside the resources folder you'd have to include something like Arrow attacks
forward slash unarmed.
If you had an attacks folder under your resources but as we said we can put resources in multiple places
and it's important when you have resource folders in multiple places that the names are never duplicated
because that's how it looks set up it's looking for unarmed.
If there was another folder which also had a resource called unarmed in it then it would not work.
So you do have to keep those names unique.
That's one of the downsides of using this approach.
However you can if you want to go a little bit further and have a look at how we did the you you I.D.
in the saving system you could apply you I.D. resource load to your resource loading and load your resources
by your I.D. We're not gonna do that because that's very complicated.
So no challenge in this lecture.
Well I'd like you to do is get this set up so that you can try it out for yourself and go go away and
just try this out and then I'm going to do the same OK so we're gonna go and try this in the editor.
What I'd expect is to have the unarmed attack set by default.
So let's go ahead and attack.
Yes we've got on armed now.
If I go and change select my player and I'm going to change.
He is different weapon name from unarmed to.
I don't know.
Let's copy for example the sword sword name.
That's why I'm going to put in here.
So the default weapon name is sword.
I'll go ahead and hit play and you can see that we are there equipped with a big sword and that's what
it's showing basically that we're able to load these weapons by the string name rather than a direct
link.
Now this is not the way you typically want to do things in unity by the way cause it's a string reference
it's horrible.
But what we are going to do now is we're able to from the weapon.
You can do a weapon name and that gets you the name of the prefab that of the name of the resource that
created it.
So that's going to give us the tools for saving this resource later on in the next lecture.
I'll see you then.